as we shift over into the kestrel side
obviously we're really excited about
this and the the main announcement there
that we're delighted to make is that
we've selected the honeywell 331 dash 14
engine for the airplane those of you
that we've talked to over the last 12
months about where do we think this
airplane is going you'll recall
conversations that we've had about
what's the right target performance
level for the airplane for the market in
that question is engine selection do we
go for a lower cost engine and a lower
cost airplane and a lower performance
point or do we go for the higher cost
higher performance let's make this thing
a real screamer but it's a debate that
you have to have from a business point
of view from an engineering point of
view and to look at what's the right
place to enter this market and as you
would expect there is an objective
engineering way that this gets done
where you look at installation install
horsepower and the performance and the
weight and the CG and all those kinds of
things it's all very reasonable it's all
very logical I can find it interesting
some people find it boring but you want
the others that process then there's an
in-between phase which is much more
subjective which is about the user
aspects of the engine and this can
include things like maintenance costs
and longevity it includes things like
support on the engine but it also
includes things like throttle response
and how does the pilot work with it it
can't be that we sell airplanes to
people who are only good enough to not
do the least little thing wrong we've
got to make airplanes easier and in this
case what we've got with the Honeywell
engine is much more robust system to
protect the pen think how this sounds
protect the engine from the pilot so
that what we've got is a more
user-friendly system so engineering
parameters horsepower weight and so on
operational side whether it's the TV oh
and so on and then the third part of the
selection really did just come down to
the partnership and we've really enjoyed
working with the team from Honeywell
they've been absolutely fantastic in
terms of being responsive
answering questions coming up to visit
beating ideas back and forth so that in
the end all things being equal and they
never are all equal but all these things
being equal we selected the Honeywell
engine because we felt in Honeywell we
had the partner that was going to make
sure that this was a successful program
and having a great big uncle like that
it is always helpful but the fantastic
support and we appreciate it Abaddon is
the brand of choice for pilots who want
innovative easy to use a be onyx and the
new ifd 540 GPS and AB calm sets a new
standard for simplicity and
communication and lpv navigation as a
slide in replacement for existing 530
series navigators and with a highly
intuitive touchscreen control the ift
540 makes it much easier to access the
information you want when you want it
reducing head down time and making
flying more enjoyable finally you have a
choice in the choice is easy Avva dine
with the decision on engine wait
horsepower performance cg wing placement
aerodynamics and so on we now get into
sort of the rest of the plan I've told
you guys this and people would expect me
to say nothing else but I can't tell you
how excited that I am about this
airplane it's been fun having all of
those details come together and see what
it's going to be for the customers you
know we design airplanes for missions
and we think customers ought to think
about the mission that they have before
they decide on their airplane but then
what you also have is the other side of
your brain thinking about mission dream
if you will missions expand with the
capability that are offered by products
again whether it's because it's easier
to user because it's higher performance
or whatever that parameter is and we're
really excited about where the mission
goes on this airplane as part of that
mission what we say over and over what
you'll see in print gets to carry a
large load a long distance at high speed
in and out of short runways so that
drives a lot of the design in terms of
okay if we can have a big load you need
to have the volume to fit this space so
if you haven't been out please come out
if you have been out you'll notice the
mock-up that's on display is what we now
expect to be the final outer mold line
that is the fuselage that will be
he produced the interior stuff can still
in changing but the outside shape is now
set a lot of volume we've increased the
size of the baggage area significantly
and I've forgotten the number already
but 36 cubic feet good as we've flown
the prototype around one of the things
you notice will say well we've got six
seats here but we haven't enough space
for all this stuff we would take to the
air show so we need more bag of space to
go along with six seeds so we've
increased the baggage space we've
increased the size of the windows we've
increased the aisle width and it's all
coming down to this pretty good package
we feel very good about some of the
things that are important in that are
making sure that the spar is now below
the the floor got a nice flat floor
we've questioned ourselves many times on
that not whether or not it's a good idea
whether or not it really that the
numbers all actually line up but yet the
all the cad model looks good so the the
final design of the that part of the
airplane is all coming together and
we'll get into the now sort of the next
systems level welcome to the arrow news
network the aviation world's most
comprehensive news and information
resource real-time 24-7 online audio and
video programming where aviation has
been getting updated for over a decade
distributing over 11,000 stories
features audio and video programs every
year only aann covers aviation and
aerospace with this much depth insight
and expertise check us out on the web at
arrow dash news net with systems will be
looking at things obviously like the
instrument panel again will be the
Aventine panel that will be starting
with in the airplane landing gear tire
sizes it'll tighe antic tires on it
something we went round and round on
we're also really happy about it looks
like we'll be saving space for a future
BRS parachute we don't expect the
airplane to have a parachute on it when
it's certified but that's primarily a
timing sort of issue we're going to know
the business cases get the airplane into
production as fast as possible and put
the parachute on when the parachutes
ready but are we working with with the
people at BRS on developing a parachute
so that's another of the system
integrations that will
be working into the airplane as we get
all those systems decisions made and
will be going through the final design
obviously then we get into the formal
certification process that we all end up
talking about so much we still think
it's call it roughly three years we
don't know how fast we don't know when
we don't know how much all those kinds
of things that we always say but it's
all feeling pretty good there aren't any
big decisions that we're waiting for
that we feel are unknowns now that would
change the design significantly or
change the schedule significantly so the
program is moving forward pretty well
the engineering team that's in place is
both in Duluth Minnesota and in
brunswick maine in terms of brunswick
the update on that is it's still where
we expect to build the airplane it's a
great location for those of you that
haven't been there you should definitely
come up and visit sometime but it's a
great location great facility giant
building giant airport very cooperative
community there are still some missing
pieces in terms of getting the last of
the financing in place but we expect
that that will be the place where we'll
be producing this airplane